=====
Menus
=====

Overview
========

Wafer includes a simple system for generating either static or dynamic
menus for the navigation bar at the top of each page.

A single level of sub-menus is supported.

Static menus
============

Static menus are configured using the ``WAFER_MENUS`` setting.
``WAFER_MENUS`` is a list of either sub-menus or menu items.

Menu items have the following keys:

``label``
    The text displayed for the menu item.
``url``
    The URL the item links to.
``sort_key``
    A value used to sort the list of items into a custom order (optional).
``image``
    An absolute or relative URL to an image to display instead of the
    label (optional).

Sub-menu have the keys:

``menu``
    The unique name of the sub-menu.
``label``
    The text to display for the sub-menu.
``items``
    A list of menu items in the sub-menu (sub-sub-menus are not supported).
``sort_key``
    A value used to sort the list of items into a custom order (optional).

Example snippet from ``settings.py``::

    from django.utils.translation import ugettext_lazy as _
    from django.core.urlresolvers import reverse_lazy

    WAFER_MENUS += (
        {"menu": "about", "label": _("About"), "items": []},
        {"name": "venue", "label": _("Venue"),
         "url": reverse_lazy("wafer_page", args=("venue",))},
        {"menu": "sponsors", "label": _("Sponsors"),
         "items": []},
        {"menu": "talks", "label": _("Talks"),
         "items": [
             {"name": "schedule", "label": _("Schedule"),
              "url": reverse_lazy("wafer_full_schedule")},
             {"name": "accepted-talks", "label": _("Accepted Talks"),
              "url": reverse_lazy("wafer_users_talks")},
             {"name": "speakers", "label": _("Speakers"),
              "url": reverse_lazy("wafer_talks_speakers")},
         ]},
    }

The empty sub-menus are populate dynamically (see the next section).


Dynamic menus
=============

Dynamic menus are configured using the ``WAFER_DYNAMIC_MENUS`` setting.
``WAFER_DYNAMIC_MENUS`` is a list of functions or names of functions to
call to dynamically add sub-menus or menu items.

Dynamic sub-menus and menu items are added after static ones.

By default, two kinds of menu items are dynamically generated:

* Menus and menu items for pages.
* A menu and menu items for sponsors.

Example snippet from ``settings.py``::

    WAFER_DYNAMIC_MENUS = (
        'wafer.pages.models.page_menus',
        'wafer.sponsors.models.sponsor_menu',
    )


Page menus
==========

Page menus are generated by ``wafer.pages.models.page_menus``. They appear
when a page is marked for inclusion in the navigation menu. Each page selected
for inclusion as a menu entry with the page name that links to the page. If
the page has a parent, it appears in a sub-menu named after its root ancestor.


Sponsor menu
============

The sponsor menu is a single sub-menu named ``sponsors``. It lists the
sponsors in order of precedence with links to their sponsor pages and includes
links to the full list of sponsors and the list of sponsorship packages at
the bottom of the sub-menu.
